Streaming lake ingestion private preview user's guide (#4004)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/datahub/streaming-lake-ingestion-bundle/monitoring.md

---
weight: 30
title: Monitoring the data flow
layout: redirect
---

<!--

### Monitoring the data flow

The service stores IoT data in the lake in near-realtime batches. When the service writes a batch of IoT data, it provides metrics on the data volumes:

* Number and size of files written per batch.
* Number of files written and removed, and the resulting data lake size per optimization run.

Use {{< product-c8y-iot >}} visualization tools to confirm that data arrives as expected and to understand data growth patterns.

### Schema change and violation notifications (#schema-change-and-violation-notifications)

-->

The service automatically updates the data lake schema when the structure of the incoming data changes. You receive notifications

> in the form of Cumulocity events for schema changes and alarms for schema violations. These notifications help you stay informed about changes and be able to address any issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the form of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} events for schema changes and alarms for schema violations. These notifications help you stay informed about changes and be able to address any issues.
```

---
weight: 30
title: Monitoring the data flow
layout: redirect
---

The service provides diagnostic tools to monitor the data offloading process. Use these tools to verify data flow, understand schema evolution, and troubleshoot data quality issues.

In addition to diagnostic tools, {{< company-c8y >}} provides a [service definition](service-definition.md) that outlines key quality objectives.

{{< c8y-admon-preview >}}

> *This feature is not part of the current private preview release.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*This feature is not part of the current Private Preview release.*
```
